Why don't we just do a basic, why don't we do a discussion, and then I can break it up and frame the questions type thing.
And then I'm going to give you a transcript, a text, and you can do anything, I'm putting this on tape, do anything you want with it.
I don't propose to cover ground that we've covered in the past, that's covered, however, feel free to use that, okay?
I'm interested in life after Eleni for Nicholas Gage.
Your life has almost been broken into two.
Not two, but it's really... You're a very successful journalist, highly respected, and yet with the book you've become more than a figure.
Would you subscribe to that?
Not subscribe to it, or would you comment on that?
You've become a national figure.
Well, that has its pluses and its minuses, you know.
Harry, do you agree with that?
Well, I don't know.
I think that I am one of a large number of Greek-Americans who are seen as a representative of the Greek-American contribution to the arts, you know.
So I think that's true.
I'm interested in how the book has changed your life.
Has it changed your life?
Obviously it's changed your life.
Well, the thing about me always has been to
search out the kind of life I want to have.
In other words, what I value.
And then to work, to be able to live that life.
Now, I am a traditionalist.
I like family, friends,
holidays you know my son's an altar boy like i was an altar boy my you know i take my kids to church every sunday we have name days i live within 15 miles of all my relatives not just my sisters but my nephews their wives their children
And I draw strength from that, from being a part of a community.
What I've been able to achieve as a writer has interfered somewhat with that, because I'm away from home alone.
On the other hand, it has made it possible for me, when I am home, to have the time and leisure to enjoy my family.
Let's just make sure we're getting this.
It's a little sunny.
47th Street Camp.
Are you able to go over there?
Yeah.
This place is great.
Okay, I think that answers... I think what you've basically told me is what counts, what has meaning in your life.
So therefore the book hasn't changed your life.
I think that was the question.
Well, to some degree the success of the book has threatened the kind of life that I like to live.
I'm constantly asked to speak outside, you know, all over the United States.
I am offered opportunities to make films and do television interviews.
And all of these things draw your way from your family.
It's not necessarily a blessing to be successful in your work.
Unless you're one of those people who enjoys the accoutrements of success and likes to roll with it, you know.
The more attention you get, the more you go after, the more money you make, the more you spend.
I'm not that kind of a person because I know what gives me satisfaction.
And what gives me satisfaction is the quality of the relationships I have with people.
Outside of those who know you and your family, has the book
brought about a perception of you.
This may give them something of what they want.
I think it depends who the perceiver is.
I think among Greek Americans, judging from all the places I've spoken, I've become
a medium by which the struggle of our parents to take care of us is sort of personified, you know, a lot of in
In Greece, the Communists are very hostile to me because I have exposed the crimes that they committed during the Civil War.
Reasonable people are, I think, responded positively because
For the first time, a book has appeared that gives a realistic portrayal of what happened during the Greek Civil War.
There were thousands of books done by both sides about the Civil War, but each side did it in propagandistic terms, and nobody believed them.
But the reason my book has succeeded is because
And it's credible, yeah.
And also because the book catches light in a Greek village, which does not exist in other books, particularly in English.
And I think the proof of the overwhelming positive
response to it in my book in Greece is the fact that it has sold more copies than any book since World War II.
Do you have any rough figures?
It's about 70,000 copies.
That's a lot of books for the United States.
And that's in hardback.
And has it been published in paperback yet in Greece?
No, it's still selling in hardback.
You know, but not only in Greece, it has sold... How many?
Yeah, that's another question.
It has sold about 4.7 million in 14 languages and is being translated in two more languages.
What are the two others?
Farsi and Chinese.
Farsi is the language... Give me a few, just so we can put it in here.
Well, all the European languages, you know, from Finnish,
to Portuguese, from Swedish to Italian, from all of it.
In England, it won the prize as the best book of 1984, fiction or non-fiction.
I'll probably put this information in the intro.
I mean, this doesn't have to go into it.
No, no, but I'm just talking about the Heinemann Prize, which in competition against... How do you spell that, Nick, the Heinemann Prize?
Yeah, H-E-I-N.
M-A-N.
H-E-I-N.
Given by the Royal Society of Literature, Great Britain.
Was this in 84?
84, yeah.
This is a group that's made up exclusively of writers, and they choose the one best book of the year.
It's not like here where we give out
Yeah, in different categories.
This is one book.
In England, I mean in Germany, it was serialized, the whole book in Stern, the largest magazine.
There was an hour television documentary.
A whole team went to Greece and followed my steps to see if
what I had done was accurate.
To try and document it.
And they did, even though the guy started out wanting to prove me wrong.
You had mentioned in one of the previous interviews we've done that
single suit filed against you, is that correct?
No, yeah.
And it's too late now because of the statute of limitations.
But I mean, assuming that you libeled anyone... Well, I call people murderers, torturers by name.
You know, I list the incidents, the people they tortured, and the places where the acts were taken, I mean, were carried out.
And no one has
has sued me, even though, you know, there is some sentiment for the left in the Greek government now, you know.
So, I mean, that's another example, you know, of the accuracy of the book.
Well, you invited, you invited... Yeah, I gave interviews in Greece, you know.
I gave an interview in Greece where I said I would go on Greek television with anyone in Greece, any one single person in Greece, to debate the accuracy of my book.
But I insisted that it be live so that it wasn't edited and slanted.
And I insisted that it would be a one-to-one situation.
Greek television has not responded to my offer.
And nor has any... Well, people have said that, you know, I will do it, you know, but they say that knowing that, you know, that Greek television won't do it.
Are there any substantive criticisms of the
Or are they just saying that it's a stilted view?
Are they saying anything substantively?
Well, one thing that they say is that the book is one-sided, that it presents only the crimes of the communists.
And my answer to that is, first of all, that it's not true.
If anyone who reads the book carefully will know that.
Second, I reported the events that happened in my region during that period.
And if anyone can prove that those events did not take place, or that I left out events that did take place, then they have a point.
But no one has done that.
I think we should leave that to later because... Well, we're going to move this stuff around, I think.
But another thing is, there was this book called The Other Lenin by a guy named Basilica Batas.
This fellow is a journalist who is essentially, I don't even think he's a communist, he's just an opportunist.
Why don't we just do that question right now?
That way we can get it away.
Well, I don't know, you didn't have that checked.
Did you want to respond to that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's right there.
Yeah, but you didn't check it.
Yeah, it's okay.
I'll respond.
Well, why don't we just respond to it?
Why don't you just respond to it and I'll frame a question to it later.
Well, he published a book called The Other Lenny, as I say.
And when was this published?
This was published about last year.
Can I ask you a couple questions?
Is it one of these titles that refers to your book or is he actually talking about another woman?
Well, it's both.
I mean, he talks about, he refutes my book and then mentions another woman who was killed by writers in another part of Greece.
Are there purportedly similar circumstances?
Theoretically.
But the main thrust of the book is to try to undermine my book.
The thing about this book is that this guy, as I say, is just a political opportunist.
But an opportunist, he saw that my book was selling tremendously well and he thought he'd get the other side to buy his book.
The previous book that this guy did
was called, was about transvestites.
And the title of it was, I Love Your Dressed George.
I Love Your Dressed.
I Love Your Dressed George.
I had run into this guy.
He interviewed me about seven or eight years ago.
Okay.
And I have the article.
He said to me, he interviewed me as being a leading investigative reporter in the United States, and he said...
to me, do you have sources in the mafia?
I said, yes.
He said, do you have sources in the FBI?
I said, do you have sources in the CIA?
I said, no, the New York Times has another reporter, Seymour Hersh in Washington, who handles the CIA.
So he wrote that accurately, but then the headline he wrote said, I have sources
in the mafia and the CIA.
I mean that's just the kind of blatant twisted journalism that goes on in Greece.
But then in this book he said, in the front of the book he says that he spent six months researching the book in
In an article he wrote to a Greek magazine, Anna, he says he spent two years researching the book.
In fact, according to the people in Lla, he went to Lla one afternoon, and that was the total of research that he did in Lla, and the book is riddled with errors about the village and the location of houses and the people.
Then he quotes the worst thing he says in it, which is...
abysmal.
He quotes a former guerrilla named Demetrius Gasteiz, who was a judge for the guerrillas.
And he quotes this guerrilla saying that he saw information that my mother was a spy, that she was giving information to the nationalist troops.
First of all, this fellow Gasteese was never in our region.
He was on Gramos.
He never came to the Murgana Mountains, where my village is.
Second, this fellow is a butcher.
He was the judge that sentenced to death probably the best officer in the guerrilla forces, a man named Yanulis.
When they lost the battle, they were looking for a scapegoat.
And this is an infamous crime within the communist ranks.
And this is the man that sentenced this guy to death.
How do you spell your new list?
Y-I-A-N-O-U-L-I-S.
It's mentioned in my book.
And this is the guy, and he prints this, this slander, with no...
corroboration, no factual information.
And if anyone who was in the village at that time would know that it would have been impossible for anyone to give information to the nationalist troops.
Because the whole region was mine and it was heavily guarded, so to go in and out was impossible.
And if my mother was able to go in and out, she wouldn't have
she wouldn't have stayed behind.
She would have escaped after we escaped.
You know, it's just a bold-faced lie.
Well, it's an incredible... Yeah, but that's what they do.
They have these, you know, the big lie is the way you attack somebody.
Hi.
Hi, Jake.
How are you doing, Joel?
Good.
How are you doing?
Very well.
How did your... Sorry.
But the proof of the total...
bankruptcy of this book is the fact that it is disowned even by the comments.
This is the other Eleni.
The other Eleni.
Nobody bought it.
It's dead in Greece.
Did it sell at all?
You know, the last time I was there it had not sold more than 2,000 copies.
So why does this guy bring it up, I wonder?
Well, because that's the way
they have of attacking you.
So it's there and you have to respond.
And then you have to go into this long story about what... Well, I don't think we have to, do we?
Well, you know, I don't care.
Well, we'll see.
I don't mind saying it because I'd like to get that stuff about how incredible this book is.
Okay.
Your book has been read
You'd say widely on both sides of the political spectrum.
The interesting thing is that there have been several articles in Greece by communists praising my book and saying, it's about time we admitted what we did.
And I can show you the articles.
There was one in which the guy said, because one of the things they do is to attack me as a CIA agent.
And finally, one leftist wrote in the Greek newspaper, does a man have to be a CIA agent to remember his mother?
But, you know, hardcore communists have come to my defense because, you know, they understand that what I wrote is the truth.
One of their questions, and I think it's one of the
two or three fair ones that they have, very interesting ones.
What has been the impact of the book in Leah?
Obviously in Greece, because we've already discussed that.
How about The Village?
Well, those Communists are upset about it, and those who suffer from the Communists are very pleased about it.
I mean, on politics.
The impact is that several thousand people from all over Europe and the United States have gone to Lear, which is a very remote place.
A number of them stayed over, slept outside on the ground.
They go with a book page by page to look at all the scenes.
It's amazing.
Has it helped the economy of the village?
Yeah.
The unfortunate thing is that
The guy who owned the coffee house is the leftist, you know, and he's the one that benefited most from it, you know.
That is ironic.
Yeah.
I think I asked you this once before.
How did you go about recreating your mother's emotions and her words and those of other characters so many years after the events?
Well, you know, there's a standard journalistic procedure in which you do that, you know.
I interviewed everyone who was still alive who was in the village at the time.
I went all over Western Europe, I went to Eastern Europe, to Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and I tracked everyone down.
I spent over $100,000 on research to find these people.
I would ask them about particular incidents.
And whenever two people in two different places who have not, at least two people, in different places who have had not contact with each other, told me the same incident, then I knew that that incident... You were interoperating.
Yeah, it took place.
It's cross-checking, it's called.
I think what you're saying is you used
standard journalistic techniques.
Which are irrefutable.
Which are standards of evidence in any court.
And in terms of the emotions of my mother, after we left the village, I talked to a number of village women who talked to my mother during this period, and she would tell them things.
And when she would tell them
something about what she was feeling, she told them.
I just simply described it as her ongoing emotion rather than naming the person she told and so forth, which slows down the flow of the narrative.
I think I have quotes from you on this that I used in the other story.
And I think you said there was one exception where you went out to where she was.
Yeah, the last.
And you just put yourself in her place.
And that was the only place.
And that's all in the back of my book.
I mean, it's all, it's written in a
In the back of my book, I describe what methods are used.
They want to know if your view of the Civil War has changed in any way.
Well, that's a good question.
My view of the Civil War is what it was and what most people, including many communist guerrillas, agree.
is that it was a tragic event that brought untold death and destruction to Greece, that had no chance of succeeding, and that was perpetrated, inflicted on the country by the leadership of the Greek Communist Party.
The commanding chief of the guerrilla
when he returned to Greece, said the Civil War was a mistake.
At about this same period, the three communists took to the mountains.
The Italian communists were also undergoing a similar kind of pressure.
And in fact, in Italy, there was an attempt at assassination of the communist leader, Togliari.
As Togliari, they shot him on the street.
As he was falling, he said to his colleagues, no matter what happens to me, don't go to the mountains.
Because he knew that it was futile.
He knew that Stalin and Churchill had divided Europe.
and that there was no chance that certain countries, including Greece and Italy, were going to fall into the Soviet orbit, you know.
But the Greek communist leaders, a stupid, vicious bunch, thought they could inflict losses and persuade Stalin that they could win with something which they never did.
And, I mean, that is the historical view of the war that is standard throughout Europe.
Now, that does not mean that I feel that the Greek Communist Party should never have been legalized in Greece, but I do feel that before being legalized, they should have asked the forgiveness of the Greek people for the
death and destruction they brought up on the country.
Is the attitude in Greece still one of out of sight, out of mind type of thing?
I remember you mentioning before that they just didn't want to talk about it.
No, the communists came back and they began immediately, through their supporters in the Greek media and in Greek cultural fields, to promote their view of the war, that they were the victims, that they were the persecuted,
and that they were the ones that suffered, and to portray themselves as heroes.
Now, along comes my book that shatters all that, that makes it totally uncredible, which is why my book is such a red flag for the fanatic communists.
I mean, as I say, a lot of communists... You better use another metaphor, a red flag.
I mean, it is... But it is, basically.
But the...
But a lot of communists, like I said, I have them inside, I'll show you the articles, you know, have come to the defense of the book.
And, you know, people who have reviewed it all over the world have acknowledged.
When you set out on the project, clearly you had a sense of mission.
I wonder if you could define the mission.
Is it, if in fact you agree there was a mission?
But was it focused to find the people or the person responsible for your mother's death?
Well, when I started out, my main mission was to tell my mother's story.
And through her, in effect, to tell the stories of all innocent civilians who get caught in the middle of these conflicts.
pay the highest price.
And in that sense, it was apolitical.
It was apolitical, you know.
It was a personal obligation, I felt.
I owed my mother, who gave her life to save mine.
Then, as I went on and I found out that some of the people responsible were still alive, I became obsessed with avenging her death, something in the end I could not do.
But a third mission developed, evolved really, as I was doing the research.
I realized that I had gathered the material to portray, describe life in a Greek village in a way that, in a vivid way that had not been done before.
particularly in English.
So, and the critics have noticed this.
You know, the New York Review of Books says that there's enough material here for five dissertations on sociology.
Five different books.
Yeah.
Which leading into another area at some point was probably the principal difficulty of making a film out of this.
Yeah, yeah.
That it was too much.
Yeah, it was too, too, when you had to just take the course to it.
But anyway, I did that also because village life,
In Greece, the life in a Greek village was the same for hundreds of years, centuries, until the mid-1950s, when electrification, roads, and modern technological developments reached the villages, you know, and that changed it completely.
So, here's a world that existed in Greece
and throughout the Balkan for centuries.
And I worked very hard to capture it accurately and vividly and honestly.
It's interesting that people who identified with the book... In Newsweek, about a couple of weeks ago, they asked some famous people
what their favorite book is.
And Zubin Mehta said it was Eleni.
Really?
He identified with the book.
He's an Indian.
Yeah, I have it inside.
Newsweek.
I have Newsweek's at home.
Do you remember which one?
I have it in our shows.
Walter Cronkite says it's his favorite book that he has read.
President Reagan.
President Reagan had you to dinner with your wife.
And he had a special screening of the movie.
Yeah, yeah.
But, I mean, it wasn't political.
You know, he just...
Although certainly some would perceive it to be... Yeah, yeah.
And they're right, but also I have had... I mean, that's almost as much a curse as it is a blessing to hear President Reagan saying he loves your book.
But also, on the other hand, I ran into Margaret Papandreou Nathen, and she said, she said, this was last September, she said, I finally read your book.
It is...
beautifully written, extremely moving, and very important historically.
So, I mean, you have these two.
You won't have Margaret and Reagan and Margaret Papandreou and Greene and Mudge, but they agree on the book.
Well, the point is, it's a Greek story.
Right.
There are elements in there of it being a political story, but it's a human story, which is universal and which transcends political...
ideology, I would say.
I think that's what you're corroborating here.
But another thing, too, you see, Greek prose tends to be overblown.
That is, characters are made to be bigger than life.
Events are given heroic proportions.
And as a result,
you know, the books may be interesting, but they're not believable.
Now, the thing about my book that had such an impact in buries really is that the characters are drawn on a human scale.
The events are described, you know, accurately without exaggeration.
And people would say, I mean,
left, right, center, thousands of people come to me and he said, that's the way it was.
You're answering one of my questions right here.
He said, that's the way it was.
I lived it and that's the way that it was.
You had mentioned one thing, you put a period on that sentence, that you had received thousands of letters from children.
around the world since the book came out.
I'm glad you said that you had crates of letters.
Yeah, I have.
I've received over 6,000 letters from people.
More than 6,000 letters.
I mean, this has to be one of the vital signs that a writer has.
I mean, nobody likes to write out into a vacuum.
And when you hear from people on such a scale, perhaps you could tell me, I mean,
All kinds of people.
They're from all over Europe, all over the United States, Australia.
They're from Poles and Nicaraguans and Chileans and Hungarians and Jews and Greeks.
There are many people who have nothing.
There are a lot of letters from Greeks whose parents
emigrated here, and because of the cultural clash, their relationship with their parents, one or more of their parents, was strained.
And they say to me, they say, I finally understood my mother, or I finally understood my father, and I'm talking to my father after 10 years because I know what he's been through, you know.
And I've had thousands of letters, some very eloquent letters, some from children who had been taken into communist countries, you know.
This is an interesting question they have.
What do you think of Andreas Papadreiro's attempt to end the Civil War by granting amnesties, pensions, and right of return to all?
I didn't know that he had done that, but it's an interesting question.
Well, I think that at some point this part of Greek history has to be put in the past, but I think it has to be done honestly and not one-sidedly.
I mean, in September I was in Greece, and the government had just brought to Greece several hundred communists from Eastern Europe and given them free vacations in Greece.
Now, these are people who betrayed their country.
And, okay, you forgive them, forget what they did, but to reward them, I think, is a travesty.
How many Greek-Americans have been brought to Greece and given free vacations in Greece by any Greek government?
And I ask that question in view of all the Greek-Americans have done for Greece, for their native country.
And so some of those things, some of those excesses,
are distasteful to me.
But the policy of trying to bind the wounds of Greeks, you know, I support.
But the problem is that the great hostility comes from the communists.
It does not come from the right, you know.
We've had numerous assassinations in Greece since 1974.
At least 10 assassinations.
All of them were political assassinations.
All of them were leftists killing Americans or Greek conservatives or writers.
So there hasn't been any assassination in the other direction, which is, I think, proof of what the climate
in Greece is not, you know.
These communists have come back and they feel, what we didn't win in the war, we are winning, we have won through our, we're going to win through our propaganda, you know.
And my book has frustrated that campaign and that's why they are so upset with me.
Let's just do a test here.
A question here is, the communist versions of pedomasoma, is that how it is?
Pedomasoma.
They were trying to get children out of the war zone, where bombs and napalm were being used, and to keep leftist orphans from being arrested, as many were after the war, they claim.
Do you think there is any justification to this argument, even if the argument does not apply to what took place in Leah?
This is their question.
I think this is absolutely...
It's another one of the great lies that the communists promote.
The practice of taking children and taking them to communist countries to educate them and provide future cadres is part of communist
of the tactics of communist movement.
During the Spanish Civil War, thousands of Spanish children were taken to Russia.
Most of them did not return until 20 years later.
And a few of them, when they did return, were found to have been KGB agents.
Last week, recently, there was a front page in the article
in the Washington Post, oddly a conservative newspaper, which detailed that the Russians are taking thousands of children from Afghanistan to be educated and to provide future cadres in Afghanistan.
This is in January?
This will be coming out in March sometime.
This was in January, yes.
Okay.
And I think that they have, you know,
They're taking something like 6,000 children.
They've taken an average of about 6,000 children a year, which means over 30,000 so far.
In Greece they took 28,000.
So this is standard communist practice, you know, that's written about, that's in communist literature.
And that has happened in numerous other countries.
So to say that in Greece it was done to protect the children is a damn lie.
So they don't deny, certainly, that they did it, obviously.
No.
By putting forward this kind of an argument is to justify it.
But this has nothing to do with the reason they did it, and they said so, you know.
We will educate these children to be...
future communist leaders.
That's what they wanted to do.
And to keep leftist orphans from being arrested?
Were leftist orphans arrested after war?
I don't know any leftist orphans that were arrested.
Orphans after the war or poor Greek youth were offered the choice of going to children's camps where they were fed and clothed and sent to schools.
thousands of those, but there were as many rightists as leftists, the children of as many rightists as leftists, you know, and they chose to go, you know.
Okay, let me just shut this up.
We can frame it as a question.
Where do you stand politically?
Let's get it down to those elements.
Well, since I'm a Greek,
I believe in democracy.
What is it that Greece has given the world in terms of a political heritage?
A democracy.
Any Greek that supports dictatorship, either communist dictatorship or fascist dictatorship, to me is betraying his heritage.
And I opposed the junta when it was in Pasocha as vehemently as I opposed communism.
Those who know my work will know that I've written, I wrote several articles in the New York Times magazine and other places, critical of the junta, that for a period I was not allowed in Greece, for a two-year period,
from 1970 to 1972.
And that I opposed, you know, authoritarianism from the right as I opposed authoritarianism from the left.
But to me there is no difference.
All are equally evil, you know.
What I object to is that there is, in many quarters, the foolish belief that
dictatorship of the left is somehow more benign than dictatorship of the right.
But this is not what I believe.
Stalin killed as many people as Hitler did.
Probably more.
And so those are my political beliefs.
Do you have any feelings that you care to share on your
evaluation of the current government?
No, I think I never commented on Greek politics because I vote in the United States.
I think Greek people should have whatever government they want.
And I know the current prime minister.
I've interviewed him several times as I knew every other prime minister before him since 1974.
So, I don't... And I wrote critical articles of previous governments and I've written critical articles of this government, you know.
And anyone who looks at the... You know, my work as a journalist will know that, you know.
I wrote... In 1917...
1979, a long article about political patriotism, Rusveti as it's called.
The government in Palo then curious.
I've written articles since then and I've gotten this government.
But, I mean, as a reporter, when I see injustice or corruption, I speak and I can demonstrate it, I write about it.
The film tells the core story, which is my mother's struggle to save her children.
And no film can tell in two hours, can tell, can portray what is described in a 500 page book.
So there are limitations in the film.
But the core story is there.
There are things that I would have done differently if I wasn't controlled.
I was one of three producers, but my influence was limited.
But in films you have limited control anyway because it takes about 200 people to make a film.
And a book, you're there alone and you have total control of the product, of what you write.
So what I like to say is that
The book is my creation and the film is the creation of the director, Peter Yates.
But I like films and I'm going to do other films.
I've signed an agreement with Paramount to produce films for them.
But I'm still into writing a book on Greece now that will come out later this year.
Really?
Yeah.
Random House?
Random House here in Collins in England.
Oh, that's exciting.
Do you have a working title on this that you carry out?
I think I'm going to just call it Elas.
H-E-L-L-A-S.
Is it like a travel book?
It's a portrait.
I did a book years ago called A Portrait of Green.
It's a wonderful little book.
Which everybody, it was 15 years ago, everybody liked it.
And everybody's been after me to revise it and reissue it.
The chorus has grown until it has finally included both my American and Irish publishing.
So I resisted for a long time, but then I re-read the book recently, and I saw that it has some very good writing, particularly about the landscape in Greece and about the various aspects of Greek life.
And so I started rewriting and updating, and it's going to mean that I'm going to have to rewrite
50 to 60 percent of the book, but I'm into it and I'm enjoying it, so I'm going to do it, and it'll come out this year.
That's news.
That's book news.
Can I write a piece on that?
Sure.
We've covered the...
I mean, that to me is a central thing.
I mean, you can read it as a political story or you can read it as a... It isn't political.
No, it's a love story.
Essentially, it's a story of the bonds between parents and children.
And particularly the bonds between Greek parents and Greek children.
You can increase that.
If somebody asked me what is this book about, I'd say it's a love story.
And that is, it's the emotional power of the book that has made it successful.
And I'd like to think the way it's written, you know, those two, Americans and Swedes and
and Finns and Portuguese don't care about the Greek Civil War, the politics of left or right.
That's not why they're buying this book.
They're buying it because of the power of the story.
Sure.
Why does Shakespeare endure?
Not because he tells us about what happened at a castle in Denmark.
Yeah.
And when people have attacked me, I said, look, a work stands or falls on its own merits.
My book,
will survive or vanish depending on its quality.
If it's good, it will survive.
And if it isn't, it won't.
But I know that from the response to it all over the world that it is going to survive.
And there's nothing that any son of a bitch can do about it, you know.
Nothing, you know.
Not a damn thing.
That book is going to be there and it's going to be one of the cardinal works about Greece in the English language, whether anybody likes it or not.
That's a wonderful quote.
That's the quote that will end the piece, as a matter of fact.
It's clearly the most meaningful, the most important thing you've ever done.
Yeah.
And may, in fact, when everything is sorted out, will probably be the most important thing.
I don't think that I'm ever going to write anything as good as this.
Because there's no other story that I have felt so passionately about.
And there's nobody that can compete with this book because they do not have
my passion or my skills.
I mean, there are people who have my skills but didn't live through similar events, and there are people who have my passion but are not writers, are not good reporters and writers, you know.
So that formula, literary formula, is hard to repeat, and that's why
The book by Cavathard is such a travesty, you know, because for him it was a way to make a quick buck.